202010920 - Today I Learned: SQL WHERE, LIMIT, and ORDER BY statments
20210921 - Today I Learned: Refreshed on creating a git repo, copy public key to to repo site (git lab), and cloned repo directory. We created new repo for the til.md file which I moved from the home directory to the a the new repo directory "my_data_science_notes", added/commit/pushed.
20210923 - I am changing this to "Yesterday I Learned" as an attempt to reinforce previous day's lesson. So, Yesterday I Learned: JOIN, LEFT/RIGHT which start with the FROM table and attaches columns with a JOIN table. Further modification of the query is RIGHT JOIN which includes all values from the FROM table or LEFT JOIN which includes all values from the JOIN table. SELECT parameters need to include table info.  Associative Tables and Join means to further attaching tables by shared keys like bridges.
20210924 - Yesterday I Learned: to self join a table by aliasing the FROM table and then JOIN the FROM table again under a new alias allows you to select values from eithe table. I also reieved clarificatin on the LEFT JOIN funcation as well as JOINing tables in meaningful way. I also learned the value of keeping things simple. I was trying to use the MAX funciton when ASC with LIMIT solved the answer.
20210927 - Friday was an off day for Codeup Department Off-Site
20210928 - Yesterday I Learned: About subqueries and temperary tables. Subqueries are used by embedding a query into another query. Nested querys are allowed. It helps to break down each subpart of teh query sepeatley and join them at the end. Temp Table is when you make a table under your session profile which means that it gets deleted when your session ends. The temp table is helpful in manipulating data wihtout actually writing any chages to the db.
201210929 - Yesterday I Learned: Temporary Tables and Case Statements. Temporary table exercise review emphasized to break down the problem into smaller/simpler problems and to push off the complicated to later. I have to stop looking for the fancy/comlicated solutions and go forward with what I know. We learned Case Statements that add conditions "when/then" and "if()" to the select statement. When/then are good for finding matches or <> ranges, and if() is good for true/false.
20210930 - Yesterday I Learned: during the Case Statement exercise review that a letter character can be used with an operator. I learned the importance of date stamping data. I learned that I need to practice more.
20211001 - Yesterday I Learned: during the SQL quiz review that WHERE Clause operator can be used with the field in the operation. I learned that a foriegn key must be linked to a primary key. This is confusing because a foriegn key doesn't need to be unique meaning there can be duplicates and it can also be null. How does a foreign key which can be null or a duplicate be linked to a primary key?  I recieved clarificatoin on the key relationships of one-to-many, many-to-one, and many_to_many. Must use the reverse to confirm. I learned the INSERT TO command into multiple columns. We also started Python section and learned about the origin of Python and the Anaconda environment. I learned that jupyter is a small local webserver that is interfacing with ipython.
20211004 - Yesterday I Learned: Data types, Variables, and Operators. I learned about string formatting with f'???" which I agree with Adam, looks beter to read. I learned the difference between function and method, that had confused me earlier on why some were attached to the object and for some the object was placed in the (). I learned .split and .join. I leared I need to practice more with dictionaries, they still confuse me.
20211005 - Yesterday I Learned: Control Structures. I exercisd with for loops, while loops, and continue, but I haven't implemented break effectivly yet. I learned how to use format() somewhat and I also used tabulate. I learned to write input() to validate the input.
20211006 - Yesterday I Learned: About Functions. Defined functions work as an instance with its variables only existing during said instance. Passing an argurment via function parameter in orde to process argument into a differnt output. Lamdas are a quick way to run a function if said functin is temporary.
20211007 - Yesterday I Learned: During the functions exercise to be generous with variables and steps. I try so hard to keep things minimal and "efficient" with less code that I ended up blocking my self for a long time. I was trying to convert a value directly into a new list which was working. When I converted a variable instead, and then appended said variable to a list then it worked fine.
2021108 - Yesterday I Learned: About Importing. Importing brings into memory, duriing my current session, code (function, method, variable) from a different file. It makes code cleaner. Python is popular because of all of the libraries (groups of modules) that have been made available by the community.
20211012 - Yesterday I Learned: About Matplotlib. I leared how to make charts, lines, legends, with formatting."
20211013 - Yesterday I Learned: about Numpy. I learned that Numpy creates arrays that allows arithmetic (Vectorized Opertion) and comparison (Boolean Masking) on each element of the array. 
20211014 - Yesterday I Learned: more about Numpy during exercise review. I recieved further clarification on arrays and Nympy fuctions vs methods vs properties. Some key funcitons inlcude min, max, sum, prod, transpose, mean, std. Key take aways: Numpy transfers to Pandas seamlessly. Vectorized Operations with comparison operators and mathitmatcal operators."
20211014 - Yesterday I Learned: more about Pandas Series methods and functions. I eseciallfy liked descrdibe(), value_counts(), and all the str manipulations.
20211015 - Yesterday I Learned: about DataFrames. I learned about DataFrame attributes and methods. I learend about creating a bool mask to filter the data. I learned to rename, drop or creat new columns. And my favorite, I learned to chain methods which I need to practice more. 
20211018 - Yesterday I Learned: about Advanced DataFrames. I learned how to connect and import data from MySQL. I also learned the importance of creat bool mask and creating variables to make the data break down easier.
20211020 - Yesterday I Learned: about Advanced DataFrames aggregating, groupby method, .and the merg method."
20211021 - Yesterday I Learned: about Seaborn. Seaborn uses matplotlib but makes it easier. matplotlib is like learning to cook while Seaborn is like learning to make hamburger helper.
20211022 - Yesterday I Learned: more about Searborn and the use of hue and col.
20211025- Yesterday I Learend: about Spreadsheets. The if(and) function was confusing. I like Python better.
20211026 - Yesterday I Learned: about prensenting data through story telling. We learned about evaluating charts through 7 steps: things noticed, thing meet intent, anything misleading, anything missing, things disliked, things to change, new sketch.
20211027 - Yesteday I Leanred: more about presenting data by storytelling. I need to review again but one thing that stuck is something like "good not when you have no more to add but instead when there is no more to take away". Simple and less is best.
20211028 - Yesterday I Learned: about Tableau. I created worksheets and a dashboard using the Telco data. I liked the functionality of the worksheets and creating new charts.
20211029 - Staff Day 
20211101 - Yesterday I Learned: about Refining and Presenting a story
20211102 - Yesterday I Learned: key pointers for presention which stuck with me is to keep a steady pace, breath, don't rush, speak with calm and authority, let the charts breathe and allow digest time. We also did into to Stats and started in simulations. 
20211103 - Yesterday I Leanred: about about stats using simulation and probability distribution. We reviewed the simulation exericises during which I learned the importance of building toward a dataframe. Then we started in the probaility distribution and I learned about normal, binomial, and poisson distributions. 
20211103 - Yesterday I Learned: more about Probability Distribution. We completed and then reveiwed the exercises. I need more practice on interpretting questions and using distribution functions.
20211105 - Yesterday I Learned: about hypothesis testing. I learned about Null Hypothesis and Alternate Hypothesis, results being True (Posigtive / Negative) or False (Positive / Negative aka Type I and Type II error). I also learned about 1 and  2 sample with 1 and 2 tail testing.
20211108 - Yesterdy I Learned: more about Hypothesis Testing to include correlation testing using the Pearson function t and p of two Series. Working through the exercise, I learned more on pandas and how to subclass data. Need more practice.
20211109 - Yesterday I Learned: more about Hypothesis testing by using Chi Squared to compare to proportions (categories) of variables.
20211110 - Yesterday I Learned: the intro on Machine Learning and practiced methods of aquiring data using read from clipboard, sql, and csv.
20211112 - Yesterday I Learned: more about prepping data, cleaning data by dropping columns or removoing outliers. We also learned about splitting data into a train set, validate set, and  test set.
20211115 - Yesterday I Learned: about Data Exploration. Abut Univariate (one variable), Bivariate (two Variables), Multivariate (more than two variables) exploration using visualization and statistics testing.
20211116 - Yesterday I Learned: Tidy Data. I learned about the melt() fucnction that makes a wide dataframe (with lots of columns) into a long dataframe (with lots of rows). It will focuses on making each row an observation, each column a variable, and each cell a single value. I also learned learned to use pivot_table() which is the opposite of melt(). I learned about split() which seperates a values in a colunmn into two columns. 
20211117 - Yesterday I Learned: about Model Evaluation. I learned about a Confusion Matrix, creating a baseline, and evaluatin metrics through Accuracy (True Predictions / All Observations), Recall (Positive Actuals), and Precision (Positive Predictions).
20211118 - Yesterday I Learned: about the Decision Tree Model and the process it takes to make a prediction.
20211119 - Yesterday I Learned: about the Random Forest Modle is just like the Decision Tree Model only is uses a lot of random un-optimized trees and aggregates them to make a decions. I also learned about Bootstrapped data sets which is when data is randomized and include samples already used, like pulling a sample from a bag and then putting it back into the bag. It increases randomness.
20211122 - Yesterday I Learned: about KNN and Logistics Regression. Logistics Regression is still confusing to me and I don't understand what the parameters are doing
20211123 - Yesterday I Learned: about how to create my first full DS project. This will be a classifcation project and Maggie explained how we shouel use the README file for planning and documenting the active work notebook which will be used to create the final report notebook. The ReadMe file and the active work file go hand-in-hand and the final report is the presentation.
20211124-26 - Fall Break
20211129 - Yesterday I Learned: I worked more ont he classification project. I spent two days working my way through explore. Actually, I spent more than that as I got into modeling and learned I has missed things in explore. I need clarification on how to build visuals and what visuals are appropriate to answer my questions.
20211130 - Yesterday I Learned: more about presentations. Yesterday was our classification project presentation and my takeaways are time management, don't focus too long on one thing. Use 'I' instead of "We". Make the introduction exciting and about what you did, not just the topic. I need to get better at visuals and stats.
20211201 - Yesterday I Learned: about regression. Regression being the best line made to accomdate points on a plot. I need more clarification. We also covered aquiring data and started working the the zillow data.
20211202 - Yesterday I Learned: About the cap stone from Germain's review panel 2 presentations. It was good expoerience and oppurtunity to learn  was we have coming up. I learned pointers of presentatino from the instructors and my takeways are again to keep a calm and clear pace, keep it engaging and exciting, and keep the visual simple and less busy.
20211203 - Yesterday I Learned: about Scaling using Normalized 'min-max' algorithm or Standardized 'standard deviation' algorithim. Also there is Robust scaling which preserves outliers. I also learned from the regressino lessson review Adam's method for removing outliers which was awesome.
20211206 - Yesterday I Learned: finer points on Exploration with quetions and answers with Ryan. I got clarification on what visuals to use, what stats test to use, and when to call exploration.
20211207 - Yesterday I Learned: about evaluating metrics for regression moodeling with using the root squre mean error (RMSE) and sometimes the R^2.
20211208 - Yesterday I Learned: about Feature Selection. We learned about two types of feature selection techniques: 1) RFE (Recursive Feature Elimination) which uses modeling to filter out features until a designated number is reached. 2) Select K Best which uses a statistics test to compare corraltion to the target.
20211209 - Yesterday I Learned: abou Regression Modeling. I learned about OLS (Ordinary Lease Squares) (using linear regression), Lasslars which is just like OLS but applies penatlies to coefficients, TweedieRegressor (GLM) which uses differnt distribution, and Polynomial Regression which transforms data by degrees input (more columns) in order to apply OSL.
20211210 - Yesterday I Learned: Yesterday was used working on the Regression Project. During work, I learned that heat maps require correlation cross tab. I got clarification on how the quantile function works and how to set up to get quartiles, upper/lower bounds to remove outlies.
20211213 - Yesterday I Learned: Friday was used for the Regresson Project. I learned that I shouldn't change anyting in the final report without first testing it in the working draft.
20211214 - Yesterday I Learned: to manage time better, and to start small and then add limited features. Yesterady was the Regression Project presentation. I need to improve on my pacing, timing, concisement, clarity. 
20211215 - Yesterday I Learned: about Machine Learning with Clustering. Clustering is unspervised ML methodology that groups features by similarity to identify a new thing. It uses K-Means, Hierarchical, and DBSCAN. K-Means groups by closest distance to centeroid. Heirarchy groups based organization level. DBSCAN groups by density of obersvations.
20211216 - Yesterday I Learned: more about wrangling data. We used learned more methods to looks for nulls. How to count nulls across rows and columns. What do with nulls per feature.